---
layout: post
title:  "Week 4 – August_21"
date: 2018-12-05 21:15:00 +0100
tags: mindfullness 
gmap: https://maps.app.goo.gl/4angS7w53HMvkqcJ8 
location: "August_21, Causewayside"
image: https://github.com/MazzaMac/mocha-the-week/blob/main/assets/images/posts/august_21-dec-2019.jpg?raw=true
---
*Info on this week’s Mocha Hot Spot: August 21 has been open since 2015. It sells coffee (obvz), cakes, sandwiches and soups and (I think?) salads. Full disclosure: it’s one of my favourite coffee shops in the city, and in fact one of the reasons I wanted to start this blog…but I’ll try to stay as objective as possible. *

It was recommended to me by my therapist, as it happens. Haha, maybe she was subliminally encouraging me to start a blog about mochas and mindfulness? And maybe this is all a slow-brewing experiment in cognitive behavioural therapy? Or maybe it’s just really close to where I live, and the staff really nail it when they make a coffee…WE CAN NEVER KNOW. 

Remaining objective, of course, I have to say, the mocha here is great. Over the summer, my husband and I were busy, busy, busy. And I mean that in the sense that we had three things taking up our allowance of busyness:
- My PhD viva (eek!)
- His debut Fringe show (eek!)
- Our wedding (aww!)

There was also that insane heatwave, if you recall how we all died in puddles of our own sweat and parts of this beautiful city literally went on fire? I really believe that one of the things that kept us going through the stress and the heat was the iced mocha here at August 21. 

But let’s focus on today’s mocha. As you can see from the photograph, it’s been decorated with a Biker Mouse from Mars. Remember that show? How high do you think they writers were when they pitched it? “It’s about mice…really hench mice…who ride motorbikes…and they’re from Mars?” In which case, how high was the person who agreed to produce it?! I’m going to guess very. Anyway, it’s safe to say the mocha doesn’t taste like a greasy mouse-Martian. Or cocaine for that matter (cannot verify, never tried cocaine).

It’s slap-bang in the middle of the mocha scale. Good chocolatey, good coffee-eey, nice bit of foam and just the right temperature for my delicate little baby mouth to get straight on with drinking. My ONE, tiny complaint would be that the final sip is laced with what I assume to be undissolved cacao powder. But there’s not a hint of powder before that, which makes for an undiminished mocha experience. 

As for the café itself, exposed walls and reconditioned junkyard bric-a-brac isn’t usually to my taste, but I really how they’ve done it here. This unfinished, rough-and-ready scheme is paired with some actually quite startling artworks, all of which are definitely to my taste. And I think this is where a sit-down coffee at August 21 becomes a genuinely stimulating experience for me. My favourite painting is the big one in the back room. It depicts a mountain scene, cut through with a sort of snaking, dark rainbow. I’ve been repeatedly drawn of late to the idea of a dark rainbow as an image I’d like to explore in my poetry, and I’m wondering now if it was subliminally planted during my visits here. 

There’s something both prehistoric and post-apocalyptic about the image. No humans or animals, just a strangely positioned sun, casting the mountain tops with a strange neon glow. I’d like to visit this scene, breathe in the vast, unknowable air there, feel myself changed and renewed. But I imagine it’s a place you can go for a moment only; a few seconds before the dark rainbow settles in your lungs, damp and faintly horrifying. There’s a very exact loneliness in a scene like this, one that is both undeniable and strangely appealing. 

Is that a metaphor for drinking coffee alone in the back room of a small café? Maybe. Or maybe there’s a Biker Mouse settlement just beyond the mountains and it’s warm and welcoming. What I’m trying to say is, August 21 is an excellent place to come and think. The staff and the coffee are fantastic, and the surroundings allow you a route out of yourself momentarily…if that’s what you’re looking for. 

…see, totally objective!
