---
layout: post
title:  "Week 7 - Café Ink"
date: 2019-06-19 21:15:00 +0100
tags: hiatus depression
gmap: https://maps.app.goo.gl/k7Cnpdd9fkrmvPkc6
location: "Café Ink, Edinburgh Printmakers, Dundee Street"
image: https://github.com/MazzaMac/mocha-the-week/blob/main/assets/images/posts/cafe-ink.jpg?raw=true
---
Well, well, well. It’s been a while since I sat down to write one of these. Hello! Welcome back to Mocha the Week. I’ll get into my recent hiatus in a mo, but first things first:

*Info on this week’s Mocha Hot spot: Café Ink is inside the newly refurbished Edinburgh Printmakers and is basically my new favourite spot to sit and have a coffee with a good book. In terms of hot drinks, they serve all your old favourites, plus some of those soft drinks, you know the ones, with the soft, pastel designs on the label that look like they would taste of sweets but also be really great for your skin or something? Not going to lie, I actually forgot that I usually do this bit of background info and didn’t take particular note. Sorry!*

I really like coming here because the space is so bright and airy, with floor to ceiling windows along one side that look out over their burgeoning garden space, and there is so much delicious space between the tables. This is great for privacy and private contemplation/working. HOWEVER, the high ceilings mean that sound bounces around quite noticeably. Right now, for example, I’m listening in to a conversation two ladies are having at the other side of the room about all the bad luck their friend Sheila has fallen victim to so far this year. But if you’re not so easily distracted/nosy, then you can probably just switch off to it all.

The mocha is good. I’d say more of a coffee with chocolate in it, as opposed to a very bitter hot chocolate. The service is pretty quick, and the staff are all super friendly (though if you don’t like to be addressed as a ‘darling’ or a ‘flower’ or some derivation of the two, you should maybe send someone else up to pay…). Oh, also, it’s table service, which is cool. Much classier than most of these mocha joints I’ve been hanging around in. Come to think of it (as I type this up and simultaneously browse their website, making it seem as though this is a fact I just know) I think they’re run by the same people who do some of the other museum cafés in Edinburgh, including Modern One and Two. Haven’t been to either of those cafés since I started drinking coffee aka when I was but a little loser baby, so will check ‘em out and give you my verdict soon. 

So anyway! The main reason I haven’t been keeping up with Mocha the Week is, well, basically I was very depressed. And while the whole point of the blog was the help with all that shizz, I was in too deep before I realised why I was feeling so shitty all the time, and by then all I wanted to do was stay home and watch absolute trash on TV. Like, have you ever watched episode after episode of Escape to the Country, claiming it’s just so you can casually slam privileged arseholes with more money than you, but really it’s because that word “escape” embodies the only possible solution to all of the problems you lie in bed imagining and crying about, even though you’re supposed to be the most relaxed, happy version of yourself to have existed for years? I have, and I still despise Britain’s perpetual mode of classist subjugation LOL.

Naw, but really, it was pretty bad. Like, you know on Casualty, when someone has their leg stuck under a bit of farm equipment or something? And the paramedics are like “if we move this combine harvester, she’ll instantly bleed out and die, we need to wait for the fire service”? Well, I think, for years and years, I’ve been stuck under a combine harvester. A ton of pressure from PhD work, and before that working menial, soul-destroying jobs to avoid the breadline, while at the same time trying to maintain a truly awful relationship, and, of course years of grief and trauma that I refuse(d) to talk about. But then, at the end of last year, I was suddenly done with all that. Got my doctorate, got married, was financially secure for the first time in my life, which meant I was free to write and create all the stuff I never had time for in the past. The combine harvester was gone. And I bled out really quickly. BUT OBVIOUSLY I DIDN’T TELL ANYONE THAT. Guys, get real, I keep everything to myself, you should know that by now.

There was a whole bunch of other dark shit that I was going to share here, but my hatred for our current culture of oversharing made me cut it, because it’s actually okay to keep some details to yourself, right? The main take home is, I finally realised something was wrong and booked an appointment with my therapist. So, for anyone who has asked “why no mochas Mazzy bebe?”, there you have it.

Depression is really boring and frustrating, and it ate up the first six months of what was supposed to be a very happy time in my life. And one of the most annoying things about it is…I can’t even be annoyed about any of it, because that just starts that cycle of self-loathing again. I found it really helpful to take a huge break from social media, and to only read the newspapers like once or twice a week? The current state of the world is enough to bum anyone out, but if, like me, you’re of a delicate sensibility (i.e. catastrophically predicts every future event as the worst possible scenario), maybe avoid the glut of information the internet constantly throws at us.

That being said, please like and share my blog. And follow me on Instagram if that’s your bag. I’m posting illustrations and things a lot more these days – drawing is one of my favourite ways to relax. 
